---
title: Week 6
layout: post
category: gsoc
---

<p class="lead">
Well, as per my proposal this week was supposed to be before mid term, but Mid term arrived a week early, and I wasn't able to do the stuff before mid term. The big highlight of this week's work is thumbnail generation. To automatically captured rendered view of uploaded model, and use it as a thumbnail in model feed. But there are some previous week's unfinished buisness, so after clearing them out, I will be onto thumbnail generation.
</p>
  
<div class="accordion">
<h3>July 1</h3>
<div>
<p>Saw gmail, I had two replies on my query I asked previous day. One was to install tbz file using the code <code> pkg_add filename.tbz</code>. Another was from sean(BRL-CAD admin) himself, he had told to compile BRL-CAD from latest source.</p>
<p>Started compiling from BRL-CAD source, had to setup svn first on my system. Did the svn setup with <code>sudo pkg install subversion</code>.</p>
<p>After successful compilation, I could get into mged console, using binary in my build folder.</p>
<p>Tried running OGV, as BRL-CAD and meteor both were correctly installed. But got the error in starting mongodb. Searched about it and got to know that I separately installed mongodb, and it's now conflicting with meteor's mongodb installation. So I removed the externally installed mongodb. Mongodb error was gone, but it showed some other error, couldn't understand it. So thought of coming back to it, after doing some other work.</p>
</div>

<h3>June 30</h3>
<div>
<p>Had to install BRL-CAD, downloaded the .tbz file from sourceforge repositories. Extracted it using gunzip and tar command. Struggled a bit with installation. Had no idea about the next steps. Tried installing a deb package, but that as thought isn't possible for a freeBSD system</p>
<p>After a lot of searching and no success I mailed BRL-CAD mailing list, asking about desired installation steps for a successful installation of BRL-CAD on freeBSD</p>
<p>Also I gave final touches to search design, haven't used fuse search, but redesigned the search with exactly same functionality.</p>
</div>

<h3>June 29</h3>
<div>
<p>Today I worked on deploying OGV app on the newly meteor installed server.</p>
<p>Started with using meteor up (mup) package, which is famously used to deploy meteor apps to debian based servers. I have used this with some other project so thought of giving it a try with freeBSD system. After several tries, and searches I realized that I can not use mup to deploy a meteor app on a freeBSD server</p>
<p>Another meteor package, named <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/pm2-meteor">pm2-meteor</a> declared that they are capable of deploying app on ubuntu and freeBSD hosts. From documentation it seemed easier to use. Tried using it, couldn't get the configuration right, I kept getting an error with configuration syntax. After spending some time indulging with it, I thought to save it for future, let's try some another method of deployment.</p>
<p>While I was clearing my pm2 configurations, it came to my mind, that I haven't installed BRL-CAD on my server. Without BRL-CAD installed, OGV won't work. So I thought of doing it the first day in next morning.</p>
</div>

<h3>June 28</h3>
<div>
<p>Today I got access to a freeBSD digital ocean droplet. I was able to install meteor on it. I posted the steps in a separate <a href="http://gauravjeetsingh.github.io/2016/06/29/installing-meteor-freebsd.html">post</a>.</p>
<p>Most of the day was spent in doing this. It was my first time with freeBSD system. So it was hard to get started. I kept using ubuntu commands :P by habbit.</p>
<p>By the end of day I also worked on search redesign, it's almost complete now. Also there are lot of pending commits in my fork, will be sending pull request soon.</p>
</div>

<h3>June 27</h3>
<div>
<p>Started working on understanding search that is already implemented in OGV. OGV uses a meteor package and create a <code>searchSource</code> object, this makes searching easier by automatic handling of search history, browser cache.</p>
<p>Understood the existing part and started working on redesign of Search, the new design looks very similar to what proposed in proposal. I was able to get the same stuff done, without tweaking the backend. Thus I would improve search efficiency after improving search design.</p>
</div>


</div>
