---
title: Week 8
layout: post
category: gsoc
---

<p class="lead">
This week's major concern was to search inside model and show/hide parts of the model. But I am still struggling for the previous week's work which is to merge obj files. So this week's priority tasks are repository cleanup, deployment, and merging.
</p>
  
<div class="accordion">
<h3>July 17</h3>
<div>
<p>Even sunday felt like I should be working. I am starting to enjoy working on OGV.</p>
<p>Today I finished the repository cleanup, I pulled all my changes from my fork to the BRL-CAD repository. Now there are only two branches in github repo that are master and development.</p>
<p>Also merged some new changes in the master branch of BRL-CAD's OGV repository. Before merging I tested it for small errors.</p>
</div>

<h3>July 16</h3>
<div>
<p>Today was saturday, I usually take a break on weekend but today I felt I should work. The merge problem kept bugging my head.</p>
<p>Regular expression seemed a valid approach now, as any parameter of ls command didn't work. So I started reading about regular expressions. How to implement them in javascript. How to design a regular expression that may match my desire</p>
<p>I used the site <a href="http://regexr.com/">Regexr</a> to test and modify the reqular expression. After few trials, I was able to get desired results. The regular expression that did the work was <code>/\w*\.r/g</code></p>
</div>

<h3>July 15</h3>
<div>
<p>The basic logic of merging was done, now I had to think about implementing it in OGV codebase.</p>
<p>One thing I have to take care of is that I only have to merge the object files in .g file and not the objects ending with .r. So I had to think of a way to get all the files that doesn't end with .r</p>
<p>Currently ls command is used to list objects so I thought of some parameter of ls command that could do the required purpose. But sadly I couldn't get it working.</p>
</div>

<h3>July 14</h3>
<div>
<p>Today I was thinking about a bit different approach to merging the obj files. Till now I was thinking to merge the files after obj files are created. But today I saw the workflow of OGV backend and a thought appeared in my mind. What actually happens is that first the objects are listed from a .g file and then an obj file is created for each object. So I thought how about instead of merging the obj files, I should merge objects and a single obj file would be created for an entire model.</p>
<p>I started reading mged documentation in order to find a command that can do the required work</p>
<p>Came across r command and it said it can merge objects. I tried the r command manually in mged console, and created an object named everything. When converted to obj file (everything.obj) and rendered only that file in browser, luckily I got complete model.</p>
</div>

<h3>July 12</h3>
<div>
<p>Today I came across a mail, as per which I was given access to the BRL-CAD repo. I could start commiting in the original repository after I click on confirm invitation in mail. I did that and started looking through code of all the branches.</p>
<p>I deleted all the branches except master and GSOC15-merged. GSOC15-merged contained the latest OGV code, and it was the branch I was working on since the start of GSoC.</p>
<p>I started testing out the code on GSOC15-merged to see if it's ready to be merged into master or not.</p>
</div>

<h3>July 11</h3>
<div>
<p>Today I started studying how actually the g file is shown in browser. What's the exact workflow a g file undergoes for rendering itself on browser. I read some threeJs documentation, as I already knew that this was the rendering library being used in OGV. After that there's a file in OGV at <code> server/cfs_uploader.js</code> All the magic happens in this file.</p>
<p>We are using three npm packages <code>shell fs and child_process</code> to execute shell command from app.</p>
<p>Two shell commands are being used to convert a g file into obj file. First <code>mged</code> lists all the objects in a g file, and after that a for loop executes for each object, in which <code>g_obj </code> converts each object into it's respective .obj file. And also it updates the <code>ObjFiles</code> collection.</p>
</div>
</div>
